Liss if you're a fan of greener grass
the relation trip or the hole in the
ground I think my varium will be right
up your alley or vice versa
it's the story of a young couple who get
stuck in suburbia with a kid to raise
and while the director had based it on
the housing crisis going on in Ireland
with people having trouble moving in now
it's highlighting people's fear of
staying in with their kids let me
explain
so vivarium is a Belgian sci-fi horror
that premiered at cons it's directed by
Lord kaan Finnegan who describes it as
life in three parts kind of like a play
that begins with act one representing
your youth and then Act three
representing regret the idea of the
social contracts that young people buy
into that you know you're kind of you've
no real choice you're expected to do
these things and expect to take these
steps pretty much they set out to create
the most terrifying monster that would
haunt people in their 20s and they
realize it's the fear of settling down
in suburbia with a family because if we
learned anything in this year it's that
kids are more scared of being trapped
inside and becoming a 23-19 it's more
questioning rather than a message saying
I don't want to say you have to do this
is more like showing the absurdity by
and amplifying reality and the idea of
mortgages the people are like really try
so hard to get one and it's essentially
just you know you buy something and then
spend your life take it back and they
die emotion boots and Jesse Eisenberg
played the young couple we're going
cuckoo to find their own house literally
there's a life cycle of a cuckoo shown
right at the beginning which has a
surrogate mother taking care of the
young before he takes care of her so
spoiler alert that's nature that's just
the way things are as they continue
their search for a home they're taken
for a viewing of yonder number nine
which looks just like eight and seven
and six on Windsor has two families in
it even though it appears to only have
one it was actually designed that way to
avoid any stigma of renting instead of
owning the entire place is more bland in
a gluten-free potluck pretty much the
town is built like an Ikea where no
matter how hard they try to leave they
just keep going back to the start
wait I'm looking over the houses like
he's in The Truman Show extra emphasis
on the your home
forever no matter what they do they
can't escape and then their Prime
shipped up baby it's a boy
just like the Cuckoo's they're stuck
segregating this baby who's slurring
more than a dude in the back of a
7-eleven in 90 days this mutant being
has grown faster than the national debt
it's like a dog with the worst parts of
a child it imitates them it doesn't
sleep it dresses up like a Mormon
I personally feel the movie gives you
enough clues to piece together
everything that's going on in the story
both metaphorically and literally the
biggest gripe I would have though is
that they had this boy sign in like 6:45
a are obviously the metaphor here is how
kids are sponges you know they take
everything in that their parents do and
they imitate it which comes off as a
surprise to a lot of parents who don't
realize that that's what's happening but
what do you showcase it in 40 times
speed it's way more appearance and way
more freaky please just let me dig okay
this is something I can do please just
let me do this
Jemma please just let me do this okay
this is something I can do just please
Jimmy let me do this we also see the kid
disappear and bring back this book which
to me is him getting indoctrinated by
school hence his ending but really the
it could be any outside forces that
could influence him or are influencing
him it could be religion with the book
it could be the O book his friend gave
them but just like the Rorschach
television that's putting subliminal
messages into his brain the whole point
is that this is how he's learning
everything and in greener grass they
weren't even more blunt about how TV
impacts kids prospect foods is there
Monsanto delivering straight to their
home meaning that they're expected to
never leave people living in these
places and not knowing their neighbors
not knowing the children eating
processed food vacuum packed in plastic
and it's kind of horrible it's funny to
see Jesse Eisenberg play machismo
character after everything we've seen
Jesse you in like the dude was the
villain in BBS and he did the least
damage now he's stuffing kids into cars
he starts to dig because he's a gardener
and that's what he knows which is really
telling for a lot of people in this
metaphor of going to work every day and
day out and feeling like they're just
digging themselves into a hole of dead
or loneliness or despair but hey at
least evil character before getting
killed by a yellow spotted lizard the
idea of corporate nine-to-five you know
developers creating housing complex to
maximize profits reminds me a lot of
sorry to bother you with how
corporations will do anything to keep
people as workhorses housing
developments are that's program during
the boom and subsequently when the crash
came were laughter sometimes abandoned
and and some people ended up having
bought a house in these places that were
partially finished because you know
maybe hundred houses and any one person
living there it won't be the only movie
this year that's covering housing issues
with Candyman also on the horizon which
as a Chicagoan I'm gonna say right now I
swear if y'all tourists turn
cabrini-green into what you did the
Joker stairs I really appreciated going
back on their filmography and seeing a
lot of their other films that covered
nature and really just led to the
artificiality of this one without name
was a previous feature of theirs which
is
up for free on to be it follows a land
surveyor who gets sent out to collect
data for a scummy developer kind of like
how vivarium is studying its cap tees
but here the forest isn't having it
my variant would be the reverse of that
right it's trying to trap people instead
but imagine the developers getting their
way and setting up not just killing
nature but setting up something that's
super artificial hence the weird stuff
that we're seeing here they refer to it
as eco horror that the more we try to
fight with nature the more that mother
gonna fight back
at a certain point it does get into
plants being sentient beings but I think
with our name is still an interesting
movie to check out especially in terms
of their filmography another one of
their projects that has a similar look
and feel and themes is the short foxes
which follows a woman having to decide
between her suburban life or letting her
enter she will foul even his early short
film when we went all the way back
called the face pits art versus
corporate ads you still see glimpses of
these themes having a man try to escape
the what did you know it mortgage
posters as he tries to join the street
art on the other side only for it to
also be covered up so it's really
interesting to see that those themes of
corporations trying to take over you
know natural settings and build up stuff
has been there for a while and we see it
with the very grim ending of this movie
by the end of it Tom finds a body before
getting body so fast the boy grows up
also just as fast and pulls up Pennywise
trying to get away from there we enter
this world where there's a bunch of
different people and they're going off
to string theory where they're all on
different frequencies so they never
noticed each other all for the boy to
just get away at the end what are people
actually afraid of what are people in
the twenties really afraid of and who
wants to create a new monster you know
living in the suburbs stuck in a heist
and that they're trying to pay off for
forever I'm becoming alienated from the
children not understanding what's going
on with technology and everything and
doing all of that for their entire lives
men's dying there was a bit that got cut
involving an item that emotion leaves
behind in the car that would have caused
the boy to follow that lead and set up a
sequel which they denied so
metaphorically it's covering all the
despair that we go because of all of
society's pressures and the stuff they
imposed on us narrative Lee you have
these beings who end up coming full
circle they were able to use these
surrogates to raise this being and then
it just goes back with an interesting
note P
that the original Martin the original
real-estate guy was also same actor who
was voicing over the weird voices that
the boy was doing the trace of the
bleakness of the film is that for the
majority of people they often don't get
that choice I think and that's the kind
of cathartic element to the film yeah
that's why it's a horror film overall I
think it's an interesting story they can
have multiple different takeaways you
know if you're having trouble looking
for a home there's that if you're having
trouble stay in that home there's that
there's the pressures of meeting
society's expectations when they're
really big businesses that have these
blueprints trying to trap you inside
their maze as they study you just like
vivarium
but if there's one thing I took away
from this video is that just taking a
step back and seeing a director's
progress and their filmography can
sometimes paint a bigger picture than
one film can and then you really see the
story they're trying to tell I think you
guys checking out this video in Kherson
are your thoughts down below in the
comment section yo Irish films are
they're really starting to kill her one
of my favorite comedies of last year was
an irish film thought it was super dope
and I really liked the a lot of the
movies that these guys made it was cool
to go back and see a lot of their
filmography a lot of it is on YouTube
for free so I think that was really cool
but I am interested to see if they
aren't gonna go the secret route a lot
of movies end up going that way that's
where they really make their money I
know but they said they didn't want to
go there we'll see if they do it or not
but I know that they are working on more
original projects I'm very excited to
see what they do these guys had that
indie style they were talking about how
in order to make all the houses look
alike they just had to flip the cars you
know because of the budget that they had
so I'm curious to see what they do next
I'm also curious to see when emotion
poops is gonna finish Y the last man
because you know obviously that
postponed because of a real virus at the
moment but I'm Kecia know you guys stops
what I'll stood out for you in this if
there's any like Easter eggs or
interpretations that really caught your
eye let me know down below in the
comment section let me know any other
movies you want us to cover and until
next time don't forget to comment like
it subscribe or i'm a prime ship you a
demon baby